CI/CD

Continuos Integration/Continuos Deployment

Continuos Integration - refers to the process of automatically building and testing code changes whenever they are made;


Continuos Deployment - refers to the process of automatically deploying code changes to the production servers without we having to redeploy the entire applicaiton again


CI/CD Pipeline - basically a list of processes/tools that are in place to ensure CI and CD;


Github is the commonly used tool for storing and integrating code -->it provides -->  Github Actions 


Github Actions -   it's a CI/CD tool that is present in the Github platform;
                   It helps developers to automate their software development workflows by defining custom actions
                These custom actions can be triggered by different events - commit, push, pull request etc;


                For example : we can define a action like - when code is pushed, run this particular command "npm run eslint"

1. Automating software development workflows;

        dev --> pushes code 

        action --> whenever code is pushed, run test cases;

        test cases are run and if no error --> only then code gets deployed;

2. build, test, deploy code or trigger notifications;

3. Automating repetitive tasks;



Let's start implementing


1. Create an empty github repository
2. ^ Add, commit and push something to it


**Github Actions Workflow**

Workflow can have two things 

1. Event -> basically when should a job run. Example,  on push, on PR etc
2. job -> what task needs to be executed. Example - running test cases, deploying, printing node version


YAML file 
Yet Another Markup language/YAML ain't markup language

.yml file;


1. create a .github folder
2. Inside this .github folder, create a workflows folder
3. Inside this workflows folder is where we write our yml file;


Things to know about yml files 

a. It follows indentation(proper spacing needs to be followed)
b. It has key value pairs separated by :
c. we can have an array of items, in new lines, each starting with -


1st workflow